```
Lorenzo D. Moon
Instructor: Caterina Paun
CS-463 Web Development
March 13th 2025
```

# Development Journal for Final Project

## Links

- Repository: https://github.com/lodomo/lodomo.github.io
- Site: https://lodomo.github.io/
- Alt: https://lodomo.dev

## Created Repository

### February 18th, 2025

Created the repository IAW guidelines from the "Final Project - Winter 2025.pdf"

## Using my previous work

### February 18th, 2025

On February 8th, I panic made a portfolio webpage for a job application.
I sat down at my computer for 13 hours and knocked it out. I want to take some
of those ideas and just actually make it look good. I've created a separate
branch called "old" in the repository so you can see what code I'm starting from.

## Created the basic structure

### February 27th, 2025

I've created the basic structure of the site. I've added a header, a footer, and
a main section. I added bootstrap to the project, and made a blank css and js
file. I added the "favicon.svg" that I designed myself.

I really want the site to be "juicy" when you scroll, I'm doing some planning
on how to make that happen.

I have a few text based games I've made in Python, and an idea for a form to PDF
generator as the "little extra" for the project. I think the form-to-PDF will
be the most straight forward to build on the skills from this class.

My poor text adventures have been collecting dust, and I think they would be
fun to have on the site. I'll decide over the next couple days on the scope
I can reasonably accomplish.

## API for Email / Branding

### February 28th 2025

I found a service that will let me receive emails from the site.
https://web3forms.com/

Looks like it's pretty easy to setup.

I spent a good while getting my logo design complete. I've been playing with this
for years and hit a stride where I really like it. It's not really web dev, but
it's getting this website prepared.

## Fonts!

### March 1st 2025

I researched how to import fonts. I didnt like anything on google fonts, and honestly
am trying to avoid google products at all cost. I found a font I wanted, downloaded it
and used https://transfonter.org/ to convert it to a web font.

That generated the CSS I needed to import the font, and I added it to my project.
I'll be putting comments on code generated by transfonter.

## API calls

### March 1st 2025

I think I want to get the contact form to actually DM me on bluesky from a bot account.
I'm going to look into how to do that, and see if I can get it working. I
might need to expose API keys to use github.io and don't want to do that...

## Bots, and Branding

### March 3rd 2025

I've been working on the branding/logo for site. Fixed the d's in the logo.
I've output the computer logo with the "lodomo.dev" text for the nav bar, and
just the text for the splash screen.

I created the bsky bot and am going to be hosting that on my private server since
the API key (technically just Username/Password) will be exposed.
I'll have a version of that script just on this repository, but the site will be
making calls to the external API to protect the key.

Doing all the design work and then coding it is a lot of work, I hope I have enough
time to get it all done.

## Switching to Jquery

### March 4th 2025

Jquery seems pretty powerful for what I want to do, and kinda already does the stuff
I wrote functions for. I'm going to switch to Jquery to see if I can get this written
faster and cleaner.

## Actually no.

### March 5th 2025

I started writing in Jquery and maybe it's a good tool but it totally ruins the readability
for me, and feels like I'm giving a lot of control over to the library.

I'm going back to writing my own functions so I get a better feel of how things are working.

## Progress

### March 6th 2025

I've got the artwork done for the vertical version of my logo, and setup my profile picture
to be where I want it. Not good progress today, but it works.

I'm really happy with the scrolling checkerboard pattern. I need to figure out how I'm going
to do the backgrounds for each section still. A lot more work to do in just 1 week!

I think I have that "home" section complete. I learned how to make an animation for the
logo, so it sways back and forth. Really happy with how playful this is coming out.

I got the H1 tag to hide a "welcome to lodomo.dev" message from the visuals, but keep
it for the screen reader.

## Thinks are moving smoothly!

### March 10th 2025

A lot of stuff done. I forgot to write about it.

1. Logo wiggles on hover in the top right corner.
2. "Hero" / "Jumbotron" setup, Really happy with it.
3. Hidden h1 for screen readers perfected.
4. About / Works / Projects / Contact sections setup.
5. Footer ready for social buttons, there's not much.
6. Slowly shifting checker patterns implemented.
7. Section spacers are OK, I think I want them to be different.

## Okeska Frame

### March 10th 2025

I added a frame to the text in about, and will probably reuse it for the other sections.
It's called "Okeska" as a reference to "Earthbound" which was the inspiration for most
of the sites design (and my design work in general).

## CoPilot is really bad at Javascript

### March 11th 2025

I've noticed that copilot is generally wrong about what I'm trying to write.
It's really frustrating, and I'm not sure if it's because I'm just writing in a different
style than the norm or what.

## Previous Work

### March 11th 2025

Previous work section is complete. I recreated my resume for the web page, and have it format
change depending on the width. I thought the bullet points were overwhelming so on smaller
screens it just shows where I worked, and when.

On larger screens there's bullet points for all the things I did at each job.

I pulled a font from the Google Font API for the resume. I don't like using Google products,
but it works for now.

## Projects

### March 11th 2025

I'm going to be re-using a lot of the code from the starships cards from the previous
project. I want to mimic the "about" section text box, where the title covers part of the
border. Some projects will be able to play in browser, and/or have source code, so I want
those buttons to appear if I activate them. The browser based games only work on desktop
so I need those to be hidden unless they're on a large screen.

All the projects will have an image and description. I need to figure out the layout
for small screens vs large screens.

I'm imagining:

```plaintext
Small Screen
---Title--------
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
DESC
BUTTONS
----------------

Big Screen
---Title--------
IMAGE DESC
IMAGE DESC
IMAGE BUTTONS
----------------
```

Also, while looking up how to format the data for the projects, I realized I could have
probably done the same for the previous works section. Ugh. I might have to redo that.
Right now I'm just worried about it getting done.

So for the projects I have a few functions:
"renderProjects" that actually puts the projects on the page.
"projectData" that holds a table of the data for the projects.
"projectCards" that will take in the project data and create an array of the cards.
"renderProjects" will then run "projectCards" and set the cards to the page.

## DM API

### March 11th 2025

In the lecture today, Vercel was mentioned. I decided to test that out to create my
API to send me a message with the form.

First off, the AI bot that makes programs for Vercel is absolute garbage and couldn't
create a single thing that worked.

So I guess I'm going to have to do it myself. I decided to go with Flask since
I'm a little familiar with it. It will be hosted through Vercel.

I will add in a folder into the github repo with the code used for the API but keep
the API key in a private repository.

UPDATE AN HOUR LATER:

I got my bluesky bot account banned because vercel ran the script about a thousand times
and it was blasting me with messages. So. That won't work in the submitted version.
Kinda bummed, I was really excited about that feature.
"A Bluesky account you control (lodomobo.bsky.social) has had its direct messaging (DM) feature permanently removed due to a violation of our community guidelines. This decision was made based on several risk factors on your account."
WHOOPS.

## Module - Other

### Match 12th 2025

I wanted to split my data out from my javascript file. I turned the "main.js" into a module
and then all the data is going to be in their own .mjs files.

I'm using this as a guide to figure this out: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules

I feel like this isn't the best way to do it? but using "fetch" doesn't make sense either since it's all local to the server.

Adding in my games isn't going to be possible, I don't think. I might not have time to get the PDF generator working either.
Hopefully these modules, animations, and the jumbotron will be enough learned outside of class.

Also that "vercel" thing was a bust. I'm going to have to figure out how to get the form to work without it.

I've got 2 full days dedicated to this project left, time to get it done.

## NerdFonts!

### March 12th 2025

Ok I figured out another thing to add that was from outside of the scope of the class.
I added in "Nerd Fonts" from https://www.nerdfonts.com to get some icons for the buttons.

I'm going to call the projects section done. It was incredibly frustrating to get the cards to all fill
the row. I think I finally got it to work. I used https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/utilities/flex/ and a mix
of ChatGPT to find the right combination of classes, but the buttons don't go to the bottom like how I want them to.

I'm going to call it done for now, and move on to the contact section.

## Just kidding, Those buttons infuriate me.

### March 12th 2025

I went back and fixed the buttons so they're on the bottom. I'm glad I did it looks a lot better.
The cards now have 3 break points. 1 across, 2 across, and 3 across. I'm really happy with how it turned out.

I'm going to call the projects section done for real this time.

I also went through and fixed the font sizes, some were too big and some were too small.
There's officially 4 fonts on the page, and I'm happy with how they all look.

Coolvetica for the navbar and buttons. Silkscreen for the "okeska" titles. Garamond for the resume. DM Sans for the rest.

## Email API

### March 12th 2025

Since Bluesky was a bust, I'm going back to https://web3forms.com/ that will let me send emails from the site.
It gives you a public API key that is safe to expose, and I can use that to send myself an email.
It's no more dangerous to expose than my email address.

I'll be using their prototype code to get it working, and polish it to look similar to the starships
form, but with my flair.

Update: 11:28pm
The form works!!!

Now all that's left is to clean up the code, add more comments and make the video...

## Oh No.

### March 13th 2025

I woke up and checked what the site looks like when it's pushed compared to what it looks like on live-server.
Every single picture is broken.

Update: I added the assets to gitignore to clean up my file-tree, and I just needed to remove it... So we're all good.

I got the scroll working properly, looks like bootstrap takes over the scroll offset, so I set an "important" to the CSS
to get the scroll offset to work properly.

I will be spending the rest of my time cleaning up the code, doing my WAVE checks, and checking for any deadends.

Home stretch!!

## Final Dev Journal

### March 13th 2025

The site is complete! I am very happy with how it turned out. I just uploaded the old site so you can see what it was before. It was NOT good.

All the artwork on the page was created by me, below is the readme from the repository that goes over all my design implementations.

# Read Me

## Inspiration

My entire aesthetic is capturing the essence of Earthbound, the 199X classic RPG.

- [About Earthbound](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EarthBound)
- [Battle System Image](https://external-content.duckduckgo.com/iu/?u=https%3A%2F%2Fi.pinimg.com%2Foriginals%2Ffd%2Fd2%2F61%2Ffdd261c75e0b31739f01ed7b6817db5f.png&f=1&nofb=1&ipt=e9af9a6a9a52b079c66e95b3c1d65a2b3287a3db27a2b68a4f1ea00966247b6c&ipo=images)

## Outside Libraries / Frameworks

- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
- [Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com/)
- [Web3 Forms](https://web3forms.com/)
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)

## Features

- Nav Bar
  - Logo jiggles on hover
  - Expands on different screen sizes
  - Fixed to stop on larger screens
  - Disappears on selection on mobile.
- Home
  - Jumbotron with Portrait and Logo
  - Logo is wide on large screens
  - Logo is a vertical version on small screens
  - Logo slowly rocks back and forth
  - Background slowly infinitely scrolls
- All other Sections
  - Auto-Scroll to the correct position
  - Shadow effect to transition from Previous section
- About
  - Bio inside a text box
  - The title of the text box is super imposed on top of the stroke to give the feeling of Earthbound
  - Scrolling background of a different color
- Previous Work
  - Resume in a CSS Grid
  - Education in a CSS Grid
  - Bullet Points disappear on mobile to make it more readable.
- Projects
  - All projects that mean anything to me.
  - All in a grid, with their own card, similar header to the about bio.
  - 1 wide on smaller screens, 2 wide on larger screens, 3 wide on full xl screens.
- Contact
  - Same setup as about.
  - Form to get Name, Email, Subject, and Message.
  - Emails me a message on submit.
  - Error/Success messages on submit.
  - Clears form on submit.
- Footer
  - Social links to my profiles/email.
  - Black and white logo with copyright
  - Collapses to 2 rows on mobile
  - Extends to 3 columns (blank | socials | copyright) on large screens

## Things implemented from outside of class

1. Animated Backgrounds
2. Animated Hovers
3. Animated Static Images
4. Jumbotron
5. API Call for Email
6. Nav Bar closes on selection
7. Changed colors from the default bootstrap colors

## How to Deploy

1. Clone the repository
2. Upload to any static site hosting service.
3. Done!
